.TH "aviplay" "1" "12 February 2003" "Zdenek Kabelac" ""
.SH "NAME"
aviplay \- QT\-based movie player
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B aviplay
.RI [options]\ [ \ files\  | \ URLs\  ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B aviplay
is a QT\-based player for various avi, asf, mpeg4 movie files.
Avifile project creates library that allows programs
to read and write compressed AVI/ASF files (Indeo Video, DivX :\-), etc.)
under Unix OS. (De)compression is performed with various plugins
(included Win32 DLLs for x86 OS) if native codec is not available.
Win32 libraries have to be downloaded separately. Primarily the ffmpeg
project is used for codecs and also for stream parsing. Over the
time it's possible the project will mostly blend into ffmpeg.

.SH "FEATURES"
.TP 
* low CPU usage (movies playable even P200MMX)
.TP 
* smooth video (using threads and frame precaching)
.TP 
* supports streamed .asf files
.TP 
* audio resampling suppport
.TP 
* modular design

.BR 
.SH "OPTIONS"
\fB\-h \-\-help\fR
Show help message
.TP 
\fB\-c \-\-codec\fR [help]
Set codec options (use help to see options for this parameter)
.TP 
\fB\-s \-\-size\fR <\fIwidth\fR:\fIheight\fR>
Start playing movie at dimensions X * Y.
.TP 
\fB\-f \-\-fullscreen\fR
Start playing movie in fullscreen.
.TP 
\fB\-f \-\-maximize\fR
Start playing movie in maximized mode (i.e. preserve current resolution).
.TP 
\fB\-\-seek\fR <\fIposition\fR>
Seek to given position in movie.
.TP 
\fB\-sub \-\-subtitle\fR <\fIfilename\fR>
Use give file as the source for subtitles.
.TP 
\fB\-subcp \-\-subtitle_codepage\fR <\fIcodepage\fR>
Select codepage for subtitles. They are internaly encoded into UTF\-8.
See iconv(3) for available codepages. Codepage "default" means
current default encoding in system. Example of codepages:
CP1250, ISO8859\-2, default.
.TP 
\fB\-subfont \-\-subtitle_font\fR <\fIfontname\fR>
Select font for subtitles. At this moment only X11 fonts are
supported (either in traditional "\-misc\-*" or TTF notation)
.TP 
\fB\-ac \-\-audio\-codec\fR <\fIcodecname\fR>
Prefered codec to be used for movie audio decoding.
Use with "help" to see available audio codecs.
.TP 
\fB\-vc \-\-video\-codec\fR <\fIcodecname\fR>
Prefered codec to be used for movie video decoding.
Use with "help" to see available video codecs.
.TP 
\fB\-\-rc\fR
Enables remote control (stdin|stdout).
.TP 

.BR 
.SH "SHELL variables:"
.B WIN32_PATH
\- can be used to override library path /usr/lib/win32 which holds
MS Windows binary dll codecs.

.B AVIPLUGIN_PATH
\- can be used to override library path /usr/lib/avifile which holds
avifile plugins.

.B AVIPLAY_MUTE_AUDIO
\- if set shows just video track

.B AVIPLAY_MUTE_VIDEO
\- if set plays just audio track

.B AVIPLAY_NOSYNC
\- do not synchronize audio and video track

.B HTTP_PROXY

.B WRITE_ASF
\- write asf file received over the network to file (/tmp/*.asf)


.SH "NOTE"
Press the About button in aviplay's GUI for more details about the usage
and configuation.

Aviplay automaticaly searches for subtitle file with the
same name as the original ".avi" file but 
with .sub, .SUB, .srt, .SRT, .txt, .TXT, .smi, .SMI suffix.

For Debian users: After the discussion with the autor I have came to
the conclusion that GSM codec is legaly distributed under GPL terms
since this piece of code was donated to the project by the original author
which was using it in the non\-GPL project xanim.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
http://avifile.sourceforge.net for the original source and main CVS archive
for binary codecs.

http://mplayerhq.hu for mplayer \- an excelent player with more options
and supported formats

.SH "AUTHORS"
.TP 
Original author: Eugene Kuznetsov <divx@euro.ru>
.TP 
Current developer: Zdenek Kabelac <kabi@users.sourceforge.net>

